.TH DEARROW-CLI 1 2025-03-04
.SH NAME
dearrow-cli \- view and vote for DeArrow submissions
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B dearrow-cli
[\fIOPTION\fR...\&]
.B vote
.I VIDEO_ID
[\fB\-\-downvote\fR]
.B title
[\fB\-\-was\-warned\fR]
.I TITLE
.br
.B dearrow-cli
[\fIOPTION\fR...\&]
.B vote
.I VIDEO_ID
[\fB\-\-downvote\fR]
.B thumbnail
(\fBoriginal\fR | \fBat\fR \fITIMESTAMP\fR)
.br
.B dearrow-cli
[\fIOPTION\fR...\&]
.B vote
.I VIDEO_ID
[\fB\-\-downvote\fR]
.B casual
[\fICATEGORY\fR...\&]
.P
.B dearrow-cli
[\fIOPTION\fR...\&]
.B view
.I VIDEO_ID
(\fBtitle\fR | \fBthumbnail\fR | \fBmain\fR)
.P
.B dearrow-cli
[\fIOPTION\fR...\&]
.B user
.I USER_ID
.B warnings
[\fB\-n\fR, \fB\-\-newest\fR=\fINEWEST\fR]
(\fBissued\fR | \fBreceived\fR)
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B DeArrow\~CLI
is a client for the DeArrow API with a CLI interface.
It can be used to view the titles and thumbnails
that have been submitted on a video by other users,
as well as being able to submit and vote for them.
.PP
When using the subcommand to view submissions,
DeArrow\~CLI will send an HTTP request to the web server
configured with \fB\-\-main\-api\fR or \fB\-\-browser\-api\fR,
depending on whether the request should go to the main DeArrow server
(with the \fBmain\fR subcommand of \fBview\fR)
or the DeArrow\~Browser API (used for the \fBtitle\fR and \fBthumbnail\fR
subcommands).
Once it gets a result, some general information about the video is printed,
followed by a formatted table showing all submissions.
.PP
When voting for a submission, the HTTP request will always be sent to
the main server.
In this case, the program will simply print the status code and text
from the server's response.
Note that the
.B SPONSORBLOCK_\:PRIVATE_\:USERID
environment variable must be set when voting.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Voting options
The options described in this subsection are only available when the
.B vote
command is used. Note that they have to be passed before the
submission kind (like \fBtitle\fR or \fBthumbnail\fR),
unless specified otherwise.
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-downvote
When set, downvotes instead of upvoting.
.IP
A downvote request is structurally the same as an upvote,
but with an extra \fIdownvote\fR flag set.
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-no\-autolock
When set, disables auto-lock. This only has an effect for VIP users.
.RS
.PP
Disabling auto-vote makes the vote count like it would
coming from a normal user, which means:
.Bl
.IP \[bu]
A new submission is not locked by default.
.IP \[bu]
Voting for an existing submission will increment its score,
but not lock it.
.IP \[bu]
Downvoting an existing submission will decrement its score,
but not immediately remove it.
.El
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-using\-casual
When set, indicates that the user has
.UR https://wiki.sponsor.ajay.app/w/DeArrow/Casual_mode
casual mode
.UE
enabled.
.IP
This option has no effect when the vote being submitted
is for a casual category.
.TP
.BR \-\-was\-warned
Whether to report this title submission as having been auto-warned.
This is intended to log potentially low-quality submissions
to DeArrow moderators.
Example of titles that the browser addon would flag this way are
submissions ending with a period,
submissions that start with the original title if that has
a question mark (because simply answering a question posed in
the original title is against the guidelines), etc.
.IP
This option is only available for the \fBvote\fR\~[\fIOPTION\fR...\&] \
\fBtitle\fR subcommand and should be passed after \fBtitle\fR.
.SS Viewing options
.TP
.BR \-n ", " \-\-newest =\fINEWEST
Only show a limited number of the newest warnings.
Set to \fB0\fR to show all.
.IP
This option is only available for the \fBuser\fR\~[\fIOPTION\fR...\&] \
\fBwarnings\fR subcommand.
.IP
[default: \fB0\fR]
.SS Miscellaneous options
These are general options available for all subcommands of
.BR dearrow-cli .
Note that, due to restrictions of the argument parsing library
used in the program, they have to be passed before the subcommand.
.TP
.BR \-\-main\-api =\fIMAIN_API\fR
The URI base for the main voting and query commands.
It has to be compatible with the DeArrow API, implemented by
.UR https://github.com/ajayyy/SponsorBlockServer
\fBSponsorBlockServer\fR
.UE ).
.IP
The value provided will be concatenated with
the API path to form the final URI used.
Note that the trailing slash is significant.
.IP
[default: \fBhttps://sponsor.ajay.app/api/\fR]
.TP
.BR \-\-browser\-api =\fIBROWSER_API\fR
The URI base of the API used for the database browser commands.
It has to be compatible with the API of
.UR https://github.com/mini-bomba/DeArrowBrowser
DeArrowBrowser
.UE .
Please note that the DeArrowBrowser API used by DeArrow\~CLI
is strictly \fIinternal\fR. It may change at any time without notice,
which may break the program.
.IP
The value provided will be concatenated with
the API path to form the final URI used.
Note that the trailing slash is significant.
.IP
[default: \fBhttps://dearrow.minibomba.pro/api/\fR]
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B \%SPONSORBLOCK_PRIVATE_USERID
This environment variable must be set to your private DeArrow user ID
in order to vote for any submissions.
.SH NOTES
.SS DeArrow
.UR https://dearrow.ajay.app
DeArrow
.UE
is a free, commercial browser addon for
crowdsourcing better titles and thumbnails on YouTube.
The goal is to make titles accurate and reduce sensationalism.
For information on how titles and thumbnails should be chosen,
please read the
.UR https://wiki.sponsor.ajay.app/w/DeArrow/Guidelines
DeArrow guidelines
.UE .
.SS Submissions and voting
If you are used to Sponsor\%Block's segment system, keep in mind that
submitting and voting work a bit differently in DeArrow.
In fact, submitting and voting are the exact same action \[en]
submitting is simply voting for a title or thumbnail that hasn't been
submitted yet. This also means that unlike SponsorBlock, voting does
not use UUIDs. Instead, one votes directly for
a specific string (for titles) or timestamp (for thumbnails).
.SH BUGS
Bugs can be reported by sending a mail to contact@mschae23.de or,
preferably, by opening an issue on the
.UR https://github.com/mschae23/dearrow-cli
GitHub repository
.UE .
Known bugs are tracked on the project's own
.UR https://mschae23.de/git/mschae23/dearrow-cli
Git server
.UE .
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS View submissions
.in +4n
$ \fBdearrow-cli view\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBtitle\fR
.br
$ \fBdearrow-cli view\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBthumbnail\fR
.br
$ \fBdearrow-cli view\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBmain\fR
.in
.PP
Legend for the \[lq]score\[rq] column:
.Bl
.IP \[bu]
.BR o :
Original title
.IP \[bu]
.BR m :
Removed by a VIP
.IP \[bu]
.BR x :
Shadowhidden
.IP \[bu]
.BR d :
Removed by downvotes
.IP \[bu]
.BR r :
Replaced by submitter
.IP \[bu]
.BR h :
Title / thumbnail should only appear in submission menu (score < 0)
.IP \[bu]
.BR u :
Submitted by unverified user
.IP \[bu]
.BR l :
Locked by a VIP
.IP \[bu]
.BR v :
Submitted by a VIP
.El
.SS Vote
Voting requires your private ID to be set using the
.B SPONSORBLOCK_PRIVATE_USERID
environment variable.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBtitle\fR \fI"Some title"\fR
.br
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fB\-\-downvote title\fR \
\fI"A bad title"\fR
.EE
.in
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBthumbnail\fR at 10.123
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBthumbnail\fR original
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fB\-\-downvote thumbnail at\fR \
\fI10.123\fR
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fB\-\-downvote thumbnail \
original\fR
.EE
.in
.PP
If you are a VIP user and want to
disable auto-lock (\[lq]act as VIP\[rq] in the UI),
pass the \fB\-\-no\-autolock\fR option before
.BR title " or " thumbnail .
.PP
It is also possible to vote for a casual mode category.
.PP
.in +4n
.EX
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fBcasual\fR \fICATEGORY\fR...\&
.br
$ \fBdearrow\-cli vote\fR \fIVIDEO_ID\fR \fB\-\-downvote casual\fR
.EE
.in
.PP
The following casual categories are available:
.BR funny ", " creative ", " clever ", " descriptive ", " other "."
.PP
Note that the \fB\-\-no\-autolock\fR and \fB\-\-using\-casual\fR flags
are still accepted in this mode, but will have no effect.
.SS Warnings
.in +4n
.EX
$ \fBdearrow\-cli user\fR \fIUSER_ID\fR \fBwarnings received\fR
$ \fBdearrow\-cli user\fR \fIUSER_ID\fR \fBwarnings issued\fR
.EE
.in
.PP
Shows warnings received or issued by a specific
SponsorBlock or DeArrow user.
You can pass \fB\-\-newest\fR \fIN\fR or \fB\-n\fR \fIN\fR to
only show the newest \fIN\fR warnings.
.PP
This uses
.UR https://github.com/mini-bomba/DeArrowBrowser
DeArrow Browser
.UE 's
.I internal
API by default.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2025  mschae23
.PP
DeArrow\~CLI is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU Affero General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.
DeArrow\~CLI is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU Affero General Public License for more details.
You should have received a copy of the GNU Affero General Public License
along with DeArrow\~CLI.  If not, see <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.PP
Copying and distribution of this file, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
without any warranty.
